<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_wx4_r1t_vj">
  <title>Deliverable-Specific Maps</title>
  <body>
    <p>The maps in this area represent the result of replacing peer-scope
      keydefs as authored with keydefs that point to specific versions <i>as
      delivered</i> of the peer root maps.</p>
    <p>Each deliverable reflects a unique <term>deliverable
      specification</term>, which includes the root map, the processor used
      (e.g., Open Toolkit), the deliverable type (HTML, PDF, EPUB, etc.), the
      specific parameters provided to the processor, and the filtering and
      flagging specification (DITAVAL).</p>
    <p>In this example, maps A and B link to each other when processed
      independently as root maps. When they are processed as part of omnibus map
      ab-omnibus, they are part of the same deliverable.</p>
    <p>Map C is not linked to and has no links to any peer deliverables, so it's
      deliverable-specific map should be the same as it's as-authored map.</p>
    <p>In the original map, all peer maps are referenced by a mapref with a
      @scope of "peer".</p>
    <p>In the deliveryable-specific map, all peer-scope map references are
      replaced with references to local-scope maps that define the keys that
      point to the corresponding topics <i>as delivered</i>.</p>
    <p>For example, the key definition "map-b.topic-b-01" for map B becomes, in
      the context of map A, rewritten to be a pointer to the HTML file generated
      from topic topic-b-01.dita when map B was rendered to HTML. The keydef is
      now a local (to map A) key definition that points to a an external
      HTML-format resource, the HTML page to which topic-b-01.dita was
      rendered.</p>
    <p>Note that to make this change, you (or the processing system) have to
      know which delivered instance of Map B you want Map A to point to when it
      is delivered to a particular deliverable specification. Map B may be
      delivered in many ways, but for a given link from a delivery of A to a a
      topic in B, you must choose a specific deliverable for B. Normally the
      deliverable for B would be specified when you process A initially, either
      explicitly or implicitly through a business rule like "same format to same
      format, same DITAVAL file, same processing options".</p>
  </body>
</topic>
